# pumice_detection
Most of Earth's volcanic eruptions occur underwater, and these submarine eruptions can significantly impact large-scale earth systems (e.g., enhancing local primary production by phytoplankton through supplying nutrients via hydrothermal fluids and discharged pumice rafts). However, detecting submarine eruptions is challenging due to their remote locations and eruption indicators' transient nature (e.g., floating pumice clasts, hydrothermal fluids). We can utilize global satellite imagery of 10-30 m resolution (e.g., Landsat~8, Sentinel-2) to detect new eruptions; however, the large data volumes make it challenging to systematically analyze satellite imagery on global or even regional scales. In this study, we address these challenges by developing a new semi-automated analysis framework to detect submarine eruptions through the supervised classification of satellite images on Google Earth Engine (GEE), which offers cloud-based data storage and computational resources. We present a case study using our methodology on satellite imagery from the Rabaul caldera region in Papua New Guinea. We find a large number of new unreported pumice rafts (in $\sim $16\% images from 2017--present). After analysis of the spatial pattern of raft sightings and ancillary geophysical and visual observations, we interpret that these rafts are not eruption fed. Instead, we posit that the observed rafts represent remobilization of pumice clasts from previous historical eruptions. This novel process of raft remobilization may be common at near-shore/partially submarine caldera systems (e.g., Rabaul, Krakatau) and has significant implications for new submarine eruption detection, volcanic stratigraphy, biological dispersal by rafts, as well as processes responsible for pumice flotation.
